Evaluative texts on the Web have become a valuable source of
opinions on products, services, events, individuals, etc. Recently,
many researchers have studied such opinion sources as product
reviews, forum posts, and blogs. However, existing research has
been focused on classification and summarization of opinions
using natural language processing and data mining techniques. An
important issue that has been neglected so far is opinion spam or
trustworthiness of online opinions. In this paper, we study this
issue in the context of product reviews, which are opinion rich
and are widely used by consumers and product manufacturers. In
the past two years, several startup companies also appeared which
aggregate opinions from product reviews. It is thus high time to
study spam in reviews. To the best of our knowledge, there is still
no published study on this topic, although Web spam and email
spam have been investigated extensively. We will see that opinion
spam is quite different from Web spam and email spam, and thus
requires different detection techniques. Based on the analysis of
5.8 million reviews and 2.14 million reviewers from amazon.com,
we show that opinion spam in reviews is widespread. This paper
analyzes such spam activities and presents some novel techniques
to detect them.
The Web has dramatically changed the way that people express
themselves and interact with others. They can now post reviews
of products at merchant sites and express their views and interact
with others via blogs and forums. Such content contributed by
Web users is collectively called the user-generated content (as
opposed to the content provided by Web site owners). It is now
well recognized that the user generated content contains valuable
information that can be exploited for many applications. In this
paper, we focus on customer reviews of products. In particular,
we investigate opinion spam in reviews. Reviews contain rich
user opinions on products and services. They are used by potential
customers to find opinions of existing users before deciding to
purchase a product. They are also used by product manufacturers
to identify product problems and/or to find marketing intelligence
information about their competitors [12, 16].
In the past few years, there was a growing interest in mining
opinions in reviews from both academia and industry. However,
the existing work has been mainly focused on extracting and
summarizing opinions from reviews using natural language
processing and data mining techniques [e.g., 7, 12, 20, 21, 23].
Little is known about the characteristics of reviews and behaviors
of reviewers. There is also no reported study on the
trustworthiness of opinions in reviews. Due to the fact that there is
no quality control, anyone can write anything on the Web. This
results in many low quality reviews, and worse still review spam.
Review spam is similar to Web page spam. In the context of Web
search, due to the economic and/or publicity value of the rank
position of a page returned by a search engine, Web page spam is
widespread [3, 5, 10, 24, 25, 26]. Web page spam refers to the use
of “illegitimate means” to boost the rank positions of some target
pages in search engines [10, 19]. In the context of reviews, the
problem is similar, but also quite different.
It is now very common for people to read opinions on the Web for
many purposes. For example, if one wants to buy a product and
sees that the reviews of the product are mostly positive, one is
very likely to buy it. If the reviews are mostly negative, one is
very likely to choose another product. Positive opinions can result
in significant financial gains and/or fames for organizations and
individuals. This gives good incentives for review/opinion spam.
There are generally three types of spam reviews:
Type 1 (untruthful opinions): Those that deliberately mislead
readers or opinion mining systems by giving undeserving
positive reviews to some target objects in order to promote the
objects (which we call hyper spam) and/or by giving unjust or
malicious negative reviews to some other objects in order to
damage their reputations (which we call defaming spam).
Untruthful reviews are also known as fake reviews or bogus
reviews. They have become a topic of intense discussion in
blogs and forums. A recent study by Burson-Marsteller
(http://www.burson-marsteller.com/Newsroom/Lists/BMNews/
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are
not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies
bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. To copy otherwise,
or republish, to post on servers